>> Josh Long: That's data.
Hopefully you understand data is a thing.
You can do it.
It's the blood of every
application you build, right.
Without data,
there's no point to everything else.
But nonetheless, I think the next natural
step after that will be building something
on the web using HTTP or whatever we're
going to talk about is some of that stuff.
Some of which you've already seen.
You've already seen me
use the REST client.
You saw me build a simple controller
earlier for HTTP endpoints.
But I think there's so
much more to it than just that stuff.
So let's build a new service here,
as always,
going to my second favorite place on
the Internet, start at springreo.
My first favorite place
obviously is production.
I love production.
You should love production.
You should go as early and
often as possible.
Bring the kids, bring the family.
The weather's amazing.
It's the happiest place on earth.
It is better than Disneyland.
But if you haven't been to production,
obviously begin your journey
here at start Spring IO.
And so what we're going to do is I'm
going to build a new application.
I use GraalVM, I'll use the web support,
I use the, the GraphQL support.
I'm going to use GRPC support,
I'm going to use the web support.
Already got that.
Add that, I'm going to add thymeleaf, I
guess maybe, I don't know if I have time.
We'll add hypermedia support.
We'll add dev tools,
obviously and we could add htmx.
I'm not even sure what that addition does,
but you could, I guess that's it.
Is that everything?
Got dev tools, got htmx,
got the GRPC bits, got the web server.
I got hypermedia.
I'm not sure if we'll have time for
that, but we'll try.
Okay, here
we go,
web.
So public, static, void main.
And the first thing we're going to do
is going to build a simple HTTP client.
Yeah and when we build this HTTP client,
we have the old.
The REST client, right.
So you saw me create that earlier.
So let's say I build a.
Let's go to a web service.
We have a web service over here that
we can use for some sample data.
It is called JSON
placeholder.typecode.com users, okay.
Just a nonsense resting
point on the Internet.
Okay, so I'll take that.
And that's going to be the first
thing we're going to do.
We're going to Build a simple
users client, and that's this.
So we want to create a simple client.
I'll build a, it's going to be
a spring bean managed by spring, and
it's going to talk to that REST endpoint.
What data do we want to return back?
That's the real question.
So we're going to have
a few different bits.
Actually, I'll copy and paste this because
I've already done this mapping elsewhere.
So here's the domain of the code.
We've got a user.
The user has an address
which is a rich type.
The address has a string, street street
and then we have a GEO object, and
the GEO has the Latin long,
which is a rich type.
So I'm going to return
a collection of users.
Okay, users.
And when somebody invokes this client,
they'll get back this collection of users.
So we'll say return.
Now, of course, in order for
me to do that, I need the REST client.
The REST client.
You've seen me use the JDBC client.
The REST client is just like that,
except it's for.
Well, guess what, it's for rest.
Actually, it's just for HTTP is,
I guess, the right thing to say.
So I'm injecting the builder.
I'll use that to create the bean.
You could, and
most people do actually centralize
that you can create a configuration.
So you can say web configuration,
whatever, some name like that.
And then you could have a single
bean of type REST client that you
make available for
the entire application context.
But it's useful to have a.
Actually what.
Let's just do that.
I'll do that.
Like that.
And that way when I create this bean,
I can just inject the REST client
directly instead of building it.
Okay, okay so
what does this implementation look like?
This is the hard way.
I don't want to write.
This is not the code that I
would write most of the time.
But at least you can see how
it's going to work, right?
So remember, the base URL for
the REST client is right here.
So what we need to specify at this
point is just the last mile, right?
The users.
Then we retrieve the data as the following
type of data and that's it, right?
Body of that list.
What is this then?
Retrieve body.
Okay, wait, wait, wait.
It's a collection of.
Okay, that's the other thing.
So that's a great point.
If this was a single user, I could
return a user class, but it's not right.
This is a collection clearly of users.
This gets us to a fundamental
limitation in Java's generics that
you don't have in NET Land, which is
we don't have reified generics, right?
Which means that the runtime,
at runtime, when you have a list
of string at runtime,
there's no way using reflection to ask
this instance variable what
the generic parameter is, right?
That doesn't exist.
So array, list of string,
come on, string, whatever, there.
So that that instance variable has
no generic parameter at runtime.
If I use Reflection, I will get just this.
It looks like a list of objects.
There's no generic type.
This means that there's no such
thing as list of user class.
That doesn't exist.
It's not possible.
So we need some way to capture that shape.
Because what we're going to do is we want
to get the JSON data that comes back from
this endpoint, and we need to tell this
client to turn it into something that
conforms to this Java object shape.
We got JSON coming back.
We have a Java object, but the shape
is a collection, a list of users.
It's not just a user.
And there's no way for me to pass in this.
That doesn't work.
So how can I, at runtime capture
the idea of a collection of t?
Well, turns out there's a bit of
a hack here, a bit of a gimmick,
which is if you bake a generic parameter
into the super type hierarchy,
I know of a class that
actually does get reified.
So what do I mean by that?
I can say user list
extends arraylist of user.
Now, because I'm extending
a concrete type,
then this type does have
a generic parameter.
I can get that.
It's a user, okay?
And so if you understand that,
then there's something called
the parameterized type token pattern.
And basically like what I just did here,
I created a user list.
This also works if I say user users,
new array list and
then do that,
I'm creating an anonymous inner class.
See that?
Isn't that hideous?
So I'm creating an anonymous inner class,
but because it's an anonymous,
because I have this curly bracket.
Curly bracket that's technically
a subclass of arraylist that I'm defining
one place and it's never used again,
but that still works.
If I inspect this type at
runtime via reflection,
I can deduce that the generic
parameter is of type user, okay?
So there is a way to smuggle in from
design time to runtime the generic
parameter of a type.
So we have that packaged up in a reusable
Format called a parameterized type
reference.
You can see it's a thing
that you parameterize and
then you have to create a subclass of it.
Those curly brackets
are doing a lot of work here.
So you do private final.
There you go.
Get rid of all this.
And now I'm going to ask it for this.
I'll say instead of just giving it a class
literal, which I can totally do for
single things, I'm going to give
it a parameterized type reference.
Now let's try this.
I'm going to inject this
client here, okay.
There you go.
When the program starts up, I'll inject
the users client and call users and
get all the data and then print it out.
There we go.
See, it's worked.
So now we have a nice type safe
reference to all the JSON data we got.
The GEO was mapped to the geo
object there and not bad.
But you have to understand that weird
thing with parameterized type references
to make that work.
In fact,
this is not even as bad as it looks.
You can actually do that.
So it means you're only
declaring the types once,
which is still a little bit better.
You can rerun that like this.
Same thing.
Okay, so that does work, but
it's a little ugly.
So everybody clear on this?
This is a weird thing.
It's not spring, it's just Java itself.
You have to do something like this.
Every framework has something like this.
But for the spring ecosystem,
we support passing parameterized type
references around where it makes sense
when you want to get a generic
thing whose parameter is typed.
Okay, so this is a low level client.
I'm using an HTTP client to make
a get request passing in the URL.
I've already got a base URL.
Right, that's up here.
Right, I've defined this bean.
It's got a base URL.
I'm injecting that REST client here and
I'm going to the base URL users and
I'm getting the response back.
But this is a lot of work and if I had
to do this for every single endpoint and
every single service, then things
would get out of hand pretty quickly.
So there's actually
a nicer way to do this.
There's declarative
interface based clients.
Okay, so the way that works is
you create an interface and
I'm going to call this user's client or
I'll call it declarative users client.
And here you annotate not with gitmapping,
which is the component model that
we'll look at in a minute for Exporting
HTTP endpoints, but rather Git Exchange,
which is the client side analog to that.
So here I'll say collection of user users.
So now I've got this interface.
One of the things that's.
So remember Spring Framework 7 and
Spring Boot 4 come out later this year.
One of the things that I helped work on,
and that has been a long time in coming,
is to automate away the ceremony
I'm about to show you.
So you can literally do something
like this with an annotation and
that'll be enough.
But at the moment it's not the case.
I'm going to show you some ceremony.
Don't cry.
It'll be fine in just a few months.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to
create a declarative users client, okay.
And I'll say return HTTP
service proxy factory.
Great.
With names.
Create the Exchange adapter.
So it'll be a REST
client.adapter.create passing
in the HTTP client build dot That I know.
So normally if you had more than one of
these things and you very well should,
then you just extract that
out into a bean, right?
So httpservice proxy factory.
Right, like that.
So that would be pretty reasonable.
You'd have a my HTTP service proxy factory
and then you could just reuse that.
I would just inject this into this.
Okay, and so now you can just say that or
just call it there.
Okay, whatever.
So now as I add more.
So basically you do this ceremony once and
then as you want to add more declarative
interface based clients to the system and
you can have multiple methods.
I don't know if this one actually supports
an id for example, but let's see.
Let me try, okay.
Path variable.
I don't know if that works.
Let's try it.
Does this work?
Yes, it does.
Okay, so
that's a free implementation there.
So let's just try that out.
Here we go.
Okay, there's that and
then users, client, dot user.
What did I call it?
User surely.
That's the simple one.
I want the declarative one.
Okay.
User, client, user.
And the ID is one.
I'll print it out, okay.
System out,
take 512, okay.
So you can see there's the single user and
here's everything else right
from the endpoint, okay.
So the burden, this is what you had
to write to get that client, right.
But there is some machinery
that you had to do that's this.
Okay, now for any new services, you
just define a new bean of this type and
then create an interface.
And it's pretty straightforward.
You can move really quickly at this point.
But you do need to have this.
And why would you want to have this?
Well, because you have a question
around your REST client.
So behind the scenes
there's a REST client.
Spring's providing this REST client.
It in turn can adapt like four different
libraries that you can use for HTTP,
actual low level HTTP libraries.
And by default I'm not even sure
what it's using anymore, but
it's probably using the JDK one.
There's actually two different
JDK options now in Java.
Like if you want to use.
There's the old URL connection from
30 years ago that can work, but
it doesn't support like options or
some things like that.
It's not great.
It works on older JVMs that
are like before Java 11.
And then there's a simple JDK
client I think it's called.
And that one's also probably being.
It's probably what's being used here.
But my point is the REST client will
dynamically adapt to whatever HTTP runtime
it can find, not runtime library
it can find on the class path.
And these REST clients, as you can see,
I've configured it with a base URL.
So if you want to have like the full URL,
you don't.
If you want to just reuse the same REST
client for all of your client use cases,
then don't do that.
Right, you can just put
the REST client URL here.
Git mapping.
Sorry, exchange mapping.
Is it request mapping?
I think it's this.
So let's see if that works.
So should still work.
It does not URI with unidentified scheme.
So maybe not.
Maybe I have to do it here.
Yeah, that's probably true.
That's ugly.
I don't like that at all.
So let's see.
Yeah, okay, so that works,
but it's ugly, right?
That's why I like to centralize it
instead of having to restipulate it.
You could do static final string,
base URL and then that'll work too.
But makes me want to take a shower.
So you've got your choices, okay.
I would just put it in the REST client and
then make sure I have the right one.
Okay, which brings us to a great point.
If I have two REST clients that
spring this is the secured one or
whatever, or this one has the base URL and
spring has to answer the question of which
one to inject, which one to give me.
If I define two beans of the same type,
well,
we get into a question of qualifiers.
So yeah, it gets very complicated,
doesn't it?
So where's my use of it?
It's up here.
I'm injecting the REST client.
You can see Intellij is saying,
hey, cannot auto wire.
There's more than one bean of type
rest client in the context, okay?
So you need to qualify.
So a couple options here.
You can do map of string, this and
basically in this case they're.
I can get the bean by
the name one by the name.
So the name is secured
rest client by default.
That's this if I want
to avoid magic strings,
right, I can say secured rest client,
right?
And then over here I can say name is that.
And then it doesn't matter what
you call this over here, right?
It's completely relevant now and
over here I can use that constant.
That works as well.
That's one option.
The other option, instead of injecting
all of them and then disambiguating,
that way you can inject a single one and
use a qualifier.
So like that and
then rest client and then that.
Okay, there you go.
So that qualifier is saying find the bean
that has this name, this match, okay?
And this is very common for all of Spring.
It has nothing to do
with Spring specifically,
just rest programming for all.
Any place where you have more
than one of type foo and
you want to find just a particular one,
you can even go a step further.
Remember, annotations in Spring
are composable, so you can compose them.
You can actually create
a meta annotation like this.
Copy and paste that.
And I can say, let's say I have qualifier,
I'm going to add this,
I'm going to call this secured.
Whatever.
Now I've got my own custom composable
qualifier, my custom secured annotation.
Now at the call site secured.
Put that in there.
At the call site I'm going to use
secured on the REST client and
at the definition I'll use ecured,
so I no longer need that anymore.
Okay, so that should do as well.
Did I use the REST plant
somewhere else?
I did in the first one.
Yeah, here.
Okay, well, clearly this one
shouldn't be involved anymore.
There you go.
So you see,
you can use qualifiers
to cleanly disambiguate.
You can even make them type safe by
avoiding magic strings by creating your
own meta annotations.
Okay, that's just do that.
So you can have like, maybe you have
one implementation that works with
the iOS store and
another one that does a Play Store.
And you need integrations in the back and
you want both available and
you need different call sites
to have different call flows.
Okay, so now I've got these
declarative interface clients.
I've got a manual rest
client based client.
Either way, I've got a client.